Loan Approval Prediction:
             In this article, we are going to solve the Loan Approval Prediction.
the loan will be approved or not:
            This is a classification problem in which we need to classify whether the loan will be
             approved or not.
 
Predicting modeling modeling:
           Classification refers to a predictive modeling problem where a class label is predicted
           for a given example of input data.
personal information:
           Applicants provides the system about their personal information and according to their information system gives his status of availability of loan.
 
A time limit can be set:
A time limit can be set for the applicant to check whether his/her loan can be sanctioned or not. 
Loan Prediction is very helpful for employee of banks as well as for the applicant also. 




Decision Tree: is a Supervised learning technique that can be used for both classification and Regression problems,
but mostly it is preferred for solving Classification problems. It is a tree-structured classifier,
where internal nodes represent the features of a dataset,
branches represent the decision rules and each leaf node represents the outcome.

In a Decision tree:, there are two nodes, which are the Decision Node and Leaf Node. 
Decision nodes are used to make any decision and have multiple branches,
whereas Leaf nodes are the output of those decisions and do not contain any further branches.

The decisions or the test are performed on the basis of features of the given dataset.

It is a graphical representation for getting all the possible solutions to a problem/decision based on given conditions.

It is called a decision tree because, similar to a tree, it starts with the root node,
which expands on further branches and constructs a tree-like structure

In order to build a tree, we use the CART algorithm, which stands for Classification and Regression Tree algorithm.

A decision tree simply asks a question, and based on the answer (Yes/No), it further split the tree into subtrees.


Below diagram explains the general structure of a decision tree:


Decision Tree Classification Algorithm

Decision Tree Terminologies

Root Node: Root node is from where the decision tree starts. It represents the entire dataset, 
which further gets divided into two or more homogeneous sets.

Leaf Node: Leaf nodes are the final output node, and the tree cannot be segregated further after getting a leaf node.

Splitting: Splitting is the process of dividing the decision node/root node into sub-nodes according to the given conditions.

Branch/Sub Tree: A tree formed by splitting the tree.

Pruning: Pruning is the process of removing the unwanted branches from the tree.

Parent/Child node: The root node of the tree is called the parent node, and other nodes are called the child nodes.


Step-1: Begin the tree with the root node, says S, which contains the complete dataset.
Step-2: Find the best attribute in the dataset using Attribute Selection Measure (ASM).
Step-3: Divide the S into subsets that contains possible values for the best attributes.
Step-4: Generate the decision tree node, which contains the best attribute.
Step-5: Recursively make new decision trees using the subsets of the dataset created in step -3. Continue this process until a stage is reached where you cannot further classify the nodes and called the final node as a leaf node.

Advantages of the Decision Tree
It is simple to understand as it follows the same process which a human follow while making any decision in real-life.
It can be very useful for solving decision-related problems.
It helps to think about all the possible outcomes for a problem.
There is less requirement of data cleaning compared to other algorithms.



1 EXISTING SYSTEM
Banks need to analyze for the person who applies for the loan will repay the loan or not. 
Sometime it happens that customer has provided partial data to the bank, in this case 
person may get the loan without proper verification and bank may end up with loss. 
Bankers cannot analyze the huge amounts of data manually, it may become a big 
headache to check whether a person will repay its loan or not. It is very much necessary 
to know the person getting loan is going in safe hand or not. So, it is pretty much 
important to have a automated model which should predict the customer getting the loan 
will repay the loan or not.

3.2 PROPOSED SYSTEM
I have developed a prediction model for Loan sanctioning which will predict whether the 
person applying for loan will get loan or not. The major objective of this project is to 
derive patterns from the datasets which are used for the loan sanctioning process and 
create a model based on the patterns derived in the previous step. This model is 
developed by using the one of the machine learning algorithms.